docs/pages/admin-guides/deploy-a-cluster/separate-proxy-service-endpoints.mdx, before:

---
title: Separate Internal and External Proxy Service Traffic
description: Explains how to set up the Teleport Proxy Service to isolate traffic from the public internet from internal client traffic.
---

In a typical Teleport cluster, including clusters deployed on Teleport Cloud,
the Teleport Proxy Service exposes a single HTTPS port to users on the public
internet as well as infrastructure resources running in private networks. For
self-hosted Teleport clusters with security needs that require it, you can
configure your cluster to handle traffic to the Proxy Service differently
depending on whether it originates from the public internet or from your
internal networks.

This guide explains three methods for separating Proxy Service HTTPS traffic by
origin:

## Architecture

To handle Teleport Proxy Service traffic differently depending on the origin,
you can deploy separate Proxy Service load balancers:

- A load balancer for end-user traffic from the public internet
- A load balancer for traffic from Teleport Agents in private networks

Each load balancer has a separate IP address. Both load balancers route traffic
to the same pool of Teleport Proxy Service instances, such as the same AWS
target group.

Clients then connect to the Proxy Service load balancer at the appropriate
address. Teleport Agents establish SSH reverse tunnels to the Proxy Service by
dialing the internal load balancer, while external clients connect to the Proxy
Service using the external load balancer. 

When an end user connects to an infrastructure resource, e.g., using `tsh proxy
db` or sending an HTTP request to a Teleport-protected application, they dial
the external load balancer, which forwards the traffic to the Teleport Proxy
Service. The Proxy Service then routes the traffic to the appropriate
infrastructure resource by selecting a reverse tunnel.

## Routing traffic to the appropriate load balancer

Assuming you have deployed two load balancers, one for external Proxy Service
clients and one for internal clients, there are three ways strategies for
routing traffic to the appropriate load balancer from Teleport Agents and end
users:

- [Split DNS](#split-dns)
- [Multiple public addresses](#multiple-public-addresses)
- [Tunnel public address](#tunnel-public-address)

### Split DNS

You can set up your infrastructure to use split DNS so that a single public
address for your Teleport cluster resolves to the external endpoint for end
users and the internal endpoint for infrastructure resources in your internal
network.

1. Determine the public address to use for the Teleport Proxy Service, e.g.,
   `proxy.example.com`.

1. Configure your DNS infrastructure to return the IP address of the internal
   load balancer for your internal network and the external load balancer for
   the public internet.

   For example, in Amazon Route 53, you can create public and private hosted
   zones for the same domain and add a separate record to each hosted zone ([AWS
   documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/hosted-zone-private-considerations.html#hosted-zone-private-considerations-split-view-dns)).

1. Edit your Proxy Service configuration to include a single value for its
   public address:

   ```yaml
   proxy_service:
     enabled: true
     public_addr: proxy.example.com:3080
   ```

### Multiple public addresses

You can configure the Teleport Proxy Service to advertise multiple addresses on
its SSH host certificate. This enables you to instruct internal clients (e.g.,
Teleport Agents) to connect to the Proxy Service on the internal address while
external clients connect on the external address. 

1. Configure the Teleport Proxy Service to use multiple public address values:

   ```yaml
   proxy_service:
     enabled: true
     public_addr: 
       - external_proxy.example.com:3080
       - internal_proxy.example.com:3024
   ```

1. On Teleport Agent hosts, start the `teleport` process with the
   `TELEPORT_TUNNEL_PUBLIC_ADDR` environment variable assigned to the internal
   Proxy Service load balancer address. 

   Setting `TELEPORT_TUNNEL_PUBLIC_ADDR` overrides the default behavior, in
   which an agent verifies the Proxy Service certificate using the first public
   address listed, to use the value of the environment variable instead.

   The step differs according to whether you installed Teleport on Linux servers
   using a package manager or using the `teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart:

   <Tabs>
   <TabItem label="Linux Server">

   By default, Teleport installations based on package managers (such as `apt` and
   `yum`) configure the `teleport` systemd unit to read environment variables from
   the file `/etc/default/teleport`.
   
   Edit the environment file to specify a tunnel public address with the
   following line, updating the value to include the address of your internal
   Proxy Service load balancer:

   ```text
   TELEPORT_TUNNEL_PUBLIC_ADDR=internal_proxy.example.com:3024
   ```
   </TabItem>
   <TabItem label="Kubernetes">

   In the values file for your `teleport-kube-agent` installation , assign the
   following field:

   ```yaml
   extraEnv:
     - name: TELEPORT_TUNNEL_PUBLIC_ADDR
       value: "internal_proxy.example.com:3024"
   ```

   Upgrade your `teleport-kube-agent` Helm release, assigning 
   <Var name="release-name" /> to the release name. This command assumes that the
   path to your values file is `values.yaml`:

   ```code
   $ helm upgrade <Var name="release-name" /> teleport/teleport-kube-agent --values values.yaml
   ```

   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

In this setup, end users would connect to the external address,
`external_proxy.example.com:3080`, when using client tools such as `tsh`.

### Tunnel public address

If your cluster has disabled [TLS
multiplexing](../../reference/architecture/tls-routing.mdx), you can configure
internal clients, such as Teleport Agents, to connect to the Teleport Proxy
Service over a port that is separate from the HTTPS port that end users connect
to. We recommend using the split DNS or multiple public Proxy Service addresses
unless your cluster already has TLS multiplexing disabled.

1. Edit the Teleport Proxy Service configuration to set a public address for
   establishing reverse tunnels:

   ```yaml
   proxy_service:
     enabled: true
     public_addr: external_proxy.example.com:3080
     tunnel_public_addr: internal_proxy.example.com:3024
   ```

1. Create two DNS records for the Teleport Proxy Service:

   - One for the internal Proxy Service load balancer at
     `internal_proxy.example.com`
   - One for the external Proxy Service load balancer at
     `external_proxy.example.com`

At this point, Teleport Agents can connect to the Proxy Service using the
internal address, e.g., if you set the following field in your agents'
configuration file:

```yaml
teleport:
  proxy_server: internal_proxy.example.com:3024
```

End users can connect to the Teleport Proxy Service on
`external_proxy.example.com:3080`.

Commit message:

Respond to pschisa feedback
- Make it more explicit that the guide applies to self-hosted clusters.
- Mention Managed Updates v2 instead of package managers.
- Fix example ports in the TELEPORT_TUNNEL_PUBLIC_ADDR section.
- Mention DNS in the "Multiple public addresses" section

docs/pages/admin-guides/deploy-a-cluster/separate-proxy-service-endpoints.mdx, after:

---
title: Separate Internal and External Proxy Service Traffic
description: Explains how to set up the Teleport Proxy Service to isolate traffic from the public internet from internal client traffic.
---

In a typical Teleport cluster, including clusters deployed on Teleport Cloud,
the Teleport Proxy Service exposes a single HTTPS port to users on the public
internet as well as infrastructure resources running in private networks. For
self-hosted Teleport clusters with security needs that require it, you can
configure your cluster to handle traffic to the Proxy Service differently
depending on whether it originates from the public internet or from your
internal networks.

This guide explains how to set up a self-hosted Teleport cluster to separate
Proxy Service HTTPS traffic for internal and external clients.

(!docs/pages/includes/cloud/call-to-action.mdx!)

## Architecture

To handle Teleport Proxy Service traffic differently depending on the origin,
you can deploy separate Proxy Service load balancers:

- A load balancer for end-user traffic from the public internet
- A load balancer for traffic from Teleport Agents in private networks

Each load balancer has a separate IP address. Both load balancers route traffic
to the same pool of Teleport Proxy Service instances, such as the same AWS
target group.

Clients then connect to the Proxy Service load balancer at the appropriate
address. Teleport Agents establish SSH reverse tunnels to the Proxy Service by
dialing the internal load balancer, while external clients connect to the Proxy
Service using the external load balancer. 

When an end user connects to an infrastructure resource, e.g., using `tsh proxy
db` or sending an HTTP request to a Teleport-protected application, they dial
the external load balancer, which forwards the traffic to the Teleport Proxy
Service. The Proxy Service then routes the traffic to the appropriate
infrastructure resource by selecting a reverse tunnel.

## Routing traffic to the appropriate load balancer

Assuming you have deployed two load balancers, one for external Proxy Service
clients and one for internal clients, there are three ways strategies for
routing traffic to the appropriate load balancer from Teleport Agents and end
users:

- [Split DNS](#split-dns)
- [Multiple public addresses](#multiple-public-addresses)
- [Tunnel public address](#tunnel-public-address)

### Split DNS

You can set up your infrastructure to use split DNS so that a single public
address for your Teleport cluster resolves to the external endpoint for end
users and the internal endpoint for infrastructure resources in your internal
network.

1. Determine the public address to use for the Teleport Proxy Service, e.g.,
   `proxy.example.com`.

1. Configure your DNS infrastructure to return the IP address of the internal
   load balancer for your internal network and the external load balancer for
   the public internet.

   For example, in Amazon Route 53, you can create public and private hosted
   zones for the same domain and add a separate record to each hosted zone ([AWS
   documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/hosted-zone-private-considerations.html#hosted-zone-private-considerations-split-view-dns)).

1. Edit your Proxy Service configuration to include a single value for its
   public address:

   ```yaml
   proxy_service:
     enabled: true
     public_addr: proxy.example.com:3080
   ```

### Multiple public addresses

You can configure the Teleport Proxy Service to advertise multiple addresses on
its SSH host certificate. This enables you to instruct internal clients (e.g.,
Teleport Agents) to connect to the Proxy Service on the internal address while
external clients connect on the external address. 

1. Create two DNS records for, respectively, your internal and external Teleport
   Proxy Service load balancers. This section assumes you have created the
   following records:

   | Domain Name                | IP Address             |
   |----------------------------|------------------------|
   | external_proxy.example.com | External load balancer |
   | internal_proxy.example.com | Internal load balancer |

1. Configure the Teleport Proxy Service to use multiple public address values:

   ```yaml
   proxy_service:
     enabled: true
     public_addr: 
       - external_proxy.example.com:443
       - internal_proxy.example.com:443
   ```

1. On Teleport Agent hosts, start the `teleport` process with the
   `TELEPORT_TUNNEL_PUBLIC_ADDR` environment variable assigned to the internal
   Proxy Service load balancer address. 

   Setting `TELEPORT_TUNNEL_PUBLIC_ADDR` overrides the default behavior, in
   which an agent verifies the Proxy Service certificate using the first public
   address listed, to use the value of the environment variable instead.

   The step differs according to whether you installed Teleport on Linux servers
   using [Manage Updates v2](../../upgrading/agent-managed-updates.mdx) or
   using the `teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart:

   <Tabs>
   <TabItem label="Linux Server">

   By default, Teleport installations based on Managed Updates v2 configure the
   `teleport` systemd unit to read environment variables from the file
   `/etc/default/teleport`.
   
   Edit the environment file to specify a tunnel public address with the
   following line, updating the value to include the address of your internal
   Proxy Service load balancer:

   ```text
   TELEPORT_TUNNEL_PUBLIC_ADDR=internal_proxy.example.com:443
   ```
   </TabItem>
   <TabItem label="Kubernetes">

   In the values file for your `teleport-kube-agent` installation , assign the
   following field:

   ```yaml
   extraEnv:
     - name: TELEPORT_TUNNEL_PUBLIC_ADDR
       value: "internal_proxy.example.com:443"
   ```

   Upgrade your `teleport-kube-agent` Helm release, assigning 
   <Var name="release-name" /> to the release name. This command assumes that the
   path to your values file is `values.yaml`:

   ```code
   $ helm upgrade <Var name="release-name" /> teleport/teleport-kube-agent --values values.yaml
   ```

   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

In this setup, end users would connect to the external address,
`external_proxy.example.com:443`, when using client tools such as `tsh`.

### Tunnel public address

If your cluster has disabled [TLS
multiplexing](../../reference/architecture/tls-routing.mdx), you can configure
internal clients, such as Teleport Agents, to connect to the Teleport Proxy
Service over a port that is separate from the HTTPS port that end users connect
to. We recommend using the split DNS or multiple public Proxy Service addresses
unless your cluster already has TLS multiplexing disabled.

1. Edit the Teleport Proxy Service configuration to set a public address for
   establishing reverse tunnels:

   ```yaml
   proxy_service:
     enabled: true
     public_addr: external_proxy.example.com:3080
     tunnel_public_addr: internal_proxy.example.com:3024
   ```

1. Create two DNS records for the Teleport Proxy Service:

   - One for the internal Proxy Service load balancer at
     `internal_proxy.example.com`
   - One for the external Proxy Service load balancer at
     `external_proxy.example.com`

At this point, Teleport Agents can connect to the Proxy Service using the
internal address, e.g., if you set the following field in your agents'
configuration file:

```yaml
teleport:
  proxy_server: internal_proxy.example.com:3024
```

End users can connect to the Teleport Proxy Service on
`external_proxy.example.com:3080`.
