docs/pages/index.mdx, before:

---
h1: Introduction to Teleport
title: "Introduction to the Teleport Infrastructure Identity Platform"
description: Read an overview of the Teleport Access Platform. Learn how to implement Zero Trust Security across all your infrastructure for enhanced protection and streamlined access control.
tocDepth: 3
---

Teleport is the easiest, most secure way to access and protect all your infrastructure.

The Teleport Infrastructure Identity Platform implements trusted computing at
scale, with unified cryptographic identities for humans, machines and workloads,
endpoints, infrastructure assets, and AI agents. 

## Products

The Teleport Infrastructure Identity Platform consists of four products.

- [Teleport Zero Trust Access](#teleport-zero-trust-access)
- [Teleport Machine & Workload Identity](#teleport-machine--workload-identity)
- [Teleport Identity Governance](#teleport-identity-governance)
- [Teleport Identity Security](#teleport-identity-security)

### Teleport Zero Trust Access

Teleport Zero Trust Access uses cryptographic identity to provide engineers with
just-in-time, least-privileged access to applications, servers, databases,
Kubernetes clusters, and other resources across distributed infrastructure. 

Get started with Teleport Zero Trust Access:

- [Enroll resources](enroll-resources/agents/agents.mdx) to protect with Teleport using
  cryptographic identity.
- [Set up passwordless authentication](admin-guides/access-controls/guides/passwordless.mdx)
  to enable users to access resources with hardware keys, including biometric
  credentials like Touch ID and YubiKey Bio.
- [Integrate your Single Sign-On provider](admin-guides/access-controls/sso/sso.mdx): Allow users
  to access infrastructure resources with IdPs like Okta.
- [Use Teleport as an identity provider](admin-guides/access-controls/idps/saml-guide.mdx) to
  authenticate to external services.

### Teleport Machine & Workload Identity

Teleport Machine & Workload Identity is a solution for non-human identity
management and access control, improving infrastructure resiliency by securing
system and data access between machines and workloads.

Get started with Teleport Machine & Workload Identity:

- [Issue and govern identities for automated systems](machine-workload-identity/machine-id/introduction.mdx) using Teleport Machine Identity.
- Replace long-lived API keys and environment secrets that are vulnerable to breaches, mistakes, and exfiltration with short-lived cryptographic identities using x.509 certificates or JWTs via [Teleport Workload Identity](machine-workload-identity/workload-identity/introduction.mdx).

### Teleport Identity Governance

Teleport Identity Governance hardens and monitors identities for both human and
non-human identities, improving resiliency of infrastructure from compromise due
to human factor or identity attacks.

Get started with Teleport Identity Governance:

- [Access Requests](identity-governance/access-requests/access-requests.mdx): Temporarily
  provision minimal privileges to complete a task.
- [Access Lists](identity-governance/access-lists/access-lists.mdx): Regularly audit and
  control membership to specific roles and traits, which then tie easily back
  into Teleport's existing RBAC system.
- [Device Trust](identity-governance/device-trust/device-trust.mdx): Require an up-to-date,
  registered device for each authentication by giving every device a
  cryptographic identity. 
- [Session & Identity Locks](identity-governance/locking.mdx): Lock
  suspicious or compromised identities and stop all their activity across all
  protocols and services.
- [Access Monitoring](identity-governance/access-monitoring.mdx): Detect overly
  broad privileges and inspect sessions that are not using strong protection,
  such as multi-factor authentication and Device Trust.

### Teleport Identity Security

**Teleport Identity Security** secures identities and access policies across all
of your infrastructure. It detects standing privileges and eliminates shadow
access and blind spots. 

- Get started with [Teleport Identity Security](admin-guides/teleport-policy/teleport-policy.mdx).
- Define [Crown Jewels](admin-guides/teleport-policy/crown-jewels.mdx) so you can track changes to your most sensitive users and resources.
- Enable [Teleport Identity Security integrations](admin-guides/teleport-policy/integrations/integrations.mdx) so you can identify [insecure SSH key distributions](admin-guides/teleport-policy/integrations/ssh-keys-scan.mdx), and import RBAC rules from AWS, Entra ID, and other sources to visualize your entire RBAC configuration on a single screen. 

## Architecture

The Teleport Infrastructure Identity Platform consists of a certificate authority and
identity-aware access proxy that run either on the Teleport-managed cloud or, in
special cases, a self-hosted private network. 

Teleport Agents, which can run on Linux servers or Kubernetes, proxy access to
infrastructure resources and cloud provider APIs. Users authenticate to
infrastructure resources through Teleport Agents using short-lived certificates.
Teleport Agents enforce role-based access controls by using certificates that embed user attributes.

Learn more:

- [Teleport Core Concepts](./core-concepts.mdx)
- [Architecture Guides](./reference/architecture/architecture.mdx)

Commit message:

Elevate the Linux Demo guide
Backports #55534

The Linux Demo guide is currently our only guide to running a
self-hosted demo cluster. Make this guide more prominent in order to
invite practitioners to try out Teleport.

- Move the Linux Demo guide to the root docs directory and update the
  sidebar configuration.
- Link to the Linux Demo guide in Get Started.
- Add a link to the Get Started guide early in the docs index page.
  Avoid the temptation to include a two-item list that also includes the
  Linux Demo guide, since we want to lead the user down a narrow path
  instead of forcing them to make decisions with insufficient context.

docs/pages/index.mdx, after:

---
h1: Introduction to Teleport
title: "Introduction to the Teleport Infrastructure Identity Platform"
description: Read an overview of the Teleport Access Platform. Learn how to implement Zero Trust Security across all your infrastructure for enhanced protection and streamlined access control.
tocDepth: 3
---

Teleport is the easiest, most secure way to access and protect all your infrastructure.

The Teleport Infrastructure Identity Platform implements trusted computing at
scale, with unified cryptographic identities for humans, machines and workloads,
endpoints, infrastructure assets, and AI agents. 

## Get started

You can quickly see how Teleport works by following our [Get
Started](./get-started.mdx) guide to enroll your first resource with Teleport.

## Products

The Teleport Infrastructure Identity Platform consists of four products.

- [Teleport Zero Trust Access](#teleport-zero-trust-access)
- [Teleport Machine & Workload Identity](#teleport-machine--workload-identity)
- [Teleport Identity Governance](#teleport-identity-governance)
- [Teleport Identity Security](#teleport-identity-security)

### Teleport Zero Trust Access

Teleport Zero Trust Access uses cryptographic identity to provide engineers with
just-in-time, least-privileged access to applications, servers, databases,
Kubernetes clusters, and other resources across distributed infrastructure. 

Get started with Teleport Zero Trust Access:

- [Enroll resources](enroll-resources/agents/agents.mdx) to protect with Teleport using
  cryptographic identity.
- [Set up passwordless authentication](admin-guides/access-controls/guides/passwordless.mdx)
  to enable users to access resources with hardware keys, including biometric
  credentials like Touch ID and YubiKey Bio.
- [Integrate your Single Sign-On provider](admin-guides/access-controls/sso/sso.mdx): Allow users
  to access infrastructure resources with IdPs like Okta.
- [Use Teleport as an identity provider](admin-guides/access-controls/idps/saml-guide.mdx) to
  authenticate to external services.

### Teleport Machine & Workload Identity

Teleport Machine & Workload Identity is a solution for non-human identity
management and access control, improving infrastructure resiliency by securing
system and data access between machines and workloads.

Get started with Teleport Machine & Workload Identity:

- [Issue and govern identities for automated systems](machine-workload-identity/machine-id/introduction.mdx) using Teleport Machine Identity.
- Replace long-lived API keys and environment secrets that are vulnerable to breaches, mistakes, and exfiltration with short-lived cryptographic identities using x.509 certificates or JWTs via [Teleport Workload Identity](machine-workload-identity/workload-identity/introduction.mdx).

### Teleport Identity Governance

Teleport Identity Governance hardens and monitors identities for both human and
non-human identities, improving resiliency of infrastructure from compromise due
to human factor or identity attacks.

Get started with Teleport Identity Governance:

- [Access Requests](identity-governance/access-requests/access-requests.mdx): Temporarily
  provision minimal privileges to complete a task.
- [Access Lists](identity-governance/access-lists/access-lists.mdx): Regularly audit and
  control membership to specific roles and traits, which then tie easily back
  into Teleport's existing RBAC system.
- [Device Trust](identity-governance/device-trust/device-trust.mdx): Require an up-to-date,
  registered device for each authentication by giving every device a
  cryptographic identity. 
- [Session & Identity Locks](identity-governance/locking.mdx): Lock
  suspicious or compromised identities and stop all their activity across all
  protocols and services.
- [Access Monitoring](identity-governance/access-monitoring.mdx): Detect overly
  broad privileges and inspect sessions that are not using strong protection,
  such as multi-factor authentication and Device Trust.

### Teleport Identity Security

**Teleport Identity Security** secures identities and access policies across all
of your infrastructure. It detects standing privileges and eliminates shadow
access and blind spots. 

- Get started with [Teleport Identity Security](admin-guides/teleport-policy/teleport-policy.mdx).
- Define [Crown Jewels](admin-guides/teleport-policy/crown-jewels.mdx) so you can track changes to your most sensitive users and resources.
- Enable [Teleport Identity Security integrations](admin-guides/teleport-policy/integrations/integrations.mdx) so you can identify [insecure SSH key distributions](admin-guides/teleport-policy/integrations/ssh-keys-scan.mdx), and import RBAC rules from AWS, Entra ID, and other sources to visualize your entire RBAC configuration on a single screen. 

## Architecture

The Teleport Infrastructure Identity Platform consists of a certificate authority and
identity-aware access proxy that run either on the Teleport-managed cloud or, in
special cases, a self-hosted private network. 

Teleport Agents, which can run on Linux servers or Kubernetes, proxy access to
infrastructure resources and cloud provider APIs. Users authenticate to
infrastructure resources through Teleport Agents using short-lived certificates.
Teleport Agents enforce role-based access controls by using certificates that embed user attributes.

Learn more:

- [Teleport Core Concepts](./core-concepts.mdx)
- [Architecture Guides](./reference/architecture/architecture.mdx)
