docs/pages/enroll-resources/application-access/cloud-apis/azure.mdx, before:

---
title: Protect Azure CLIs and APIs with Teleport
description: How to enable secure access to Azure CLIs.
---

(!docs/pages/includes/application-access/azure-intro.mdx!)

In this guide, you will:

1. Create an Azure managed identity for user access and attach it your VM.
1. Deploy the Teleport Application Service with an Azure app in your Teleport cluster.
1. Assume the managed identity and run `az` commands via `tsh`.

If you have enabled the Teleport SAML IdP, you can use it instead of the
Teleport Application Service to manage access to Azure CLI applications. For
instructions, read [Access Azure Portal and
CLI](../../../admin-guides/access-controls/idps/saml-microsoft-entra-external-id.mdx).

## How it works

(!docs/pages/includes/application-access/azure-how-it-works.mdx deployment="on an Azure VM" credential="managed identities"!)

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- The `az` CLI tool installed on your workstation. Teleport's `tsh` client uses
  the `az` binary to execute commands. See the [Azure
  documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)
  for how to install the `az` CLI on your operating system.

- An Azure VM where you will run the Teleport Application Service. The Azure VM
  must be running a Linux distribution.
  
  <Admonition type="note" title="Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)">
  Note that this guide is also applicable to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
  deployment with Microsoft Entra pod-managed identities enabled. However, the
  pod-managed identities feature will be deprecated in September 2024.

  For running Teleport Application Service in AKS with Microsoft Entra Workload
  ID, see [Azure CLI Access on AKS with Workload ID](./azure-aks-workload-id.mdx).
  </Admonition>

- The ability to create a user-assigned Azure managed identity and attach it to
  your VM. Azure requires three role assignments in your Azure account in order
  to do this: Managed Identity Contributor, Managed Identity Operator, and
  Virtual Machine Contributor. 

  <Admonition type="tip" title="Using existing identities">

  In this guide, we will create a user-assigned managed identity to demonstrate
  Azure CLI access with Teleport. 

  If you have another identity you would like Azure CLI users to assume via
  Teleport, you can use that instead. In this case, you will not need the
  Managed Identity Contributor role assignment.

  </Admonition>

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/4. Grant an identity to your VM

In this step, we will create an Azure managed identity and assign it to your
Azure VM. The identity we will create will be called `teleport-azure`, and will
have permissions to view resources in your Azure account.

You can enable Teleport to grant access to Azure CLIs under any Azure identity.
If you have another one you intend to use, you can skip the creation of a new
identity.

### Create an Azure managed identity

Visit the [Managed
Identities](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity%2FuserAssignedIdentities)
view in Azure Portal.

Click **Create**.

Under **Subscription**, **Resource group**, and **Region**, choose the ones that
your VM belongs to.

In the **Name** field, enter `teleport-azure`.

![Creating an Azure managed
identity](../../../../img/application-access/azure/create-identity.png)

Click **Review + create**, then **Create**.

Once creation finishes, click **Go to resource**. On the page for the new
identity, click **JSON View**. At the top of the right sidebar, you will see a
field called **Resource ID** with a value resembling the following:

```
/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/my-resource-group/providers/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/teleport-azure
```

Copy the URI of this identity so you can use it later in this guide.

### Allow the `teleport-azure` identity to view resources

Once you create an Azure identity, authorize it to access resources in your
account. In this case, we will authorize your new Azure identity to view
resources in its resource group.

Enter the name of your Azure resource group in the Azure Portal search box and
visit the page for that resource group. On the left navigation sidebar, click
the **Access control (IAM)** tab. In the row of buttons at the top of the
**Access control (IAM)** panel, click **Add > Add role assignment**.

Within the **Add role assignment** screen, click **Reader**, a built-in role
with view-only access to resources. 

![Add a role
assignment](../../../../img/application-access/azure/add-role-assignment.png)

Scroll to the bottom of the screen and click **Next**.

Within the **Members** tab, in the **Assign access to** field, choose **Managed
identity**. Click **Select members**.

On the right sidebar, find the **Managed identity** dropdown menu and select
**User-assigned managed identity**. Choose the `teleport-azure` identity you
created earlier. 

![Select managed
identities](../../../../img/application-access/azure/select-managed-identities.png)

Click **Select**, then **Review + assign**.

Verify that your **Role** is "Reader", the **Scope** matches your chosen
resource group, and the **Members** field includes the `teleport-azure` managed
identity you created earlier.

Click **Review + assign** again.

### Attach an identity to your Azure VM

Now that you have created a managed identity and assigned it a role, attach the
identity to your Azure VM so the Teleport Application Service can assume the
identity in order to proxy Azure CLI traffic.

In the [Virtual machines
view](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.Compute%2FVirtualMachines)
of Azure Portal, click on the name of the VM you are using to host the Teleport
Application Service. 

On the right side panel, click the **Identity** tab, then within the
**Identity** view, click the **User assigned** tab. Click **+Add**, then select
the `teleport-azure` identity. Click **Add**.

![Add an identity to a
VM](../../../../img/application-access/azure/vm-identity.png)

Navigate back to **Identity** tab in the page for your Azure VM. You should see
the new identity listed in the **User assigned** sub-tab:

![Verifying that you added the
identity](../../../../img/application-access/azure/verify-id.png)

## Step 2/4. Deploy the Teleport Application Service

In this step, you will run the Teleport Application Service on the Azure VM you
assigned the `teleport-azure` identity to. 

(!docs/pages/includes/application-access/app-service-join-token.mdx!)

### Install the Teleport Application Service

Run the following commands on the host where you will install the Teleport
Application Service:

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

### Configure the Teleport Application Service

On the host where you will run the Teleport Application Service, create a file
at `/etc/teleport.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml
version: v3
teleport:
  join_params:
    token_name: "/tmp/token"
    method: token
  proxy_server: "teleport.example.com:443"
auth_service:
  enabled: false
proxy_service:
  enabled: false
ssh_service:
  enabled: false
app_service:
  enabled: true
  apps:
  - name: azure-cli
    cloud: Azure
```

Edit `/etc/teleport.yaml` to replace `teleport.example.com:443` with the host
and port of your Teleport Proxy Service or Teleport Cloud tenant, e.g.,
`mytenant.teleport.sh:443`.

The `app_service` field configures the Teleport Application Service. Each item
within `app_service.apps` is an application configuration. 

In this example, we have enabled Azure CLI access by setting `cloud` to `Azure`.
With this setting configured, the Application Service will proxy user commands
from Azure CLIs by requesting access to Azure's APIs under the user's chosen
identity, which works as long as the identity is one of the ones attached to the
Application Service host.

### Run the Teleport Application Service

(!docs/pages/includes/start-teleport.mdx service="the Teleport Application Service"!)

## Step 3/4. Enable your user to access Azure CLIs

(!docs/pages/includes/application-access/azure-teleport-role.mdx!)

## Step 4/4. Use Azure CLIs with Teleport

(!docs/pages/includes/application-access/azure-tsh.mdx!)

## Next steps

- Now that you know how to protect Azure CLI access using Teleport, ensure that
  your Teleport users can only manage Azure resources temporarily, with no
  longstanding admin roles for attackers to hijack. View our documentation on
  [Role Access
  Requests](../../../identity-governance/access-requests/role-requests.mdx) and
  [Access Request plugins](../../../identity-governance/access-request-plugins/access-request-plugins.mdx).
- Consult the Azure documentation for information about [Azure managed
  identities](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview)
  and how to [manage user-assigned managed
  identities](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-manage-user-assigned-managed-identities).
- See the [Azure
  documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/reference-index?view=azure-cli-latest)
  for the full list of `az` CLI commands.
- For full details on how Teleport populates the `internal` and `external`
  traits we illustrated in the Teleport roles within this guide, see
  the [Access Controls
  Reference](../../../reference/access-controls/roles.mdx).

Commit message:

Respond to flyinghermit feedback
Provide more nuance in describing the two available integration
approaches. This includes adding a "How it works" section to the Azure
Portal guide, fulfilling one expectation we are standardizing for how-to
guides in general.

docs/pages/enroll-resources/application-access/cloud-apis/azure.mdx, after:

---
title: Protect Azure CLIs and APIs with Teleport
description: How to enable secure access to Azure CLIs.
---

(!docs/pages/includes/application-access/azure-intro.mdx!)

In this guide, you will:

1. Create an Azure managed identity for user access and attach it your VM.
1. Deploy the Teleport Application Service with an Azure app in your Teleport cluster.
1. Assume the managed identity and run `az` commands via `tsh`.

## How it works

(!docs/pages/includes/application-access/azure-how-it-works.mdx deployment="on an Azure VM" credential="managed identities"!)

You can use the Teleport SAML IdP instead of the Teleport Application Service to
manage access to Azure CLI applications. For instructions, read [Access Azure
Portal and
CLI](../../../admin-guides/access-controls/idps/saml-microsoft-entra-external-id.mdx).
In this approach, Azure tags audit logs with Teleport user accounts, providing
more visibility into how Teleport users are interacting with Azure. 

## Prerequisites

(!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

- The `az` CLI tool installed on your workstation. Teleport's `tsh` client uses
  the `az` binary to execute commands. See the [Azure
  documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)
  for how to install the `az` CLI on your operating system.

- An Azure VM where you will run the Teleport Application Service. The Azure VM
  must be running a Linux distribution.
  
  <Admonition type="note" title="Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)">
  Note that this guide is also applicable to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
  deployment with Microsoft Entra pod-managed identities enabled. However, the
  pod-managed identities feature will be deprecated in September 2024.

  For running Teleport Application Service in AKS with Microsoft Entra Workload
  ID, see [Azure CLI Access on AKS with Workload ID](./azure-aks-workload-id.mdx).
  </Admonition>

- The ability to create a user-assigned Azure managed identity and attach it to
  your VM. Azure requires three role assignments in your Azure account in order
  to do this: Managed Identity Contributor, Managed Identity Operator, and
  Virtual Machine Contributor. 

  <Admonition type="tip" title="Using existing identities">

  In this guide, we will create a user-assigned managed identity to demonstrate
  Azure CLI access with Teleport. 

  If you have another identity you would like Azure CLI users to assume via
  Teleport, you can use that instead. In this case, you will not need the
  Managed Identity Contributor role assignment.

  </Admonition>

- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/4. Grant an identity to your VM

In this step, we will create an Azure managed identity and assign it to your
Azure VM. The identity we will create will be called `teleport-azure`, and will
have permissions to view resources in your Azure account.

You can enable Teleport to grant access to Azure CLIs under any Azure identity.
If you have another one you intend to use, you can skip the creation of a new
identity.

### Create an Azure managed identity

Visit the [Managed
Identities](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity%2FuserAssignedIdentities)
view in Azure Portal.

Click **Create**.

Under **Subscription**, **Resource group**, and **Region**, choose the ones that
your VM belongs to.

In the **Name** field, enter `teleport-azure`.

![Creating an Azure managed
identity](../../../../img/application-access/azure/create-identity.png)

Click **Review + create**, then **Create**.

Once creation finishes, click **Go to resource**. On the page for the new
identity, click **JSON View**. At the top of the right sidebar, you will see a
field called **Resource ID** with a value resembling the following:

```
/subscriptions/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/resourceGroups/my-resource-group/providers/Microsoft.ManagedIdentity/userAssignedIdentities/teleport-azure
```

Copy the URI of this identity so you can use it later in this guide.

### Allow the `teleport-azure` identity to view resources

Once you create an Azure identity, authorize it to access resources in your
account. In this case, we will authorize your new Azure identity to view
resources in its resource group.

Enter the name of your Azure resource group in the Azure Portal search box and
visit the page for that resource group. On the left navigation sidebar, click
the **Access control (IAM)** tab. In the row of buttons at the top of the
**Access control (IAM)** panel, click **Add > Add role assignment**.

Within the **Add role assignment** screen, click **Reader**, a built-in role
with view-only access to resources. 

![Add a role
assignment](../../../../img/application-access/azure/add-role-assignment.png)

Scroll to the bottom of the screen and click **Next**.

Within the **Members** tab, in the **Assign access to** field, choose **Managed
identity**. Click **Select members**.

On the right sidebar, find the **Managed identity** dropdown menu and select
**User-assigned managed identity**. Choose the `teleport-azure` identity you
created earlier. 

![Select managed
identities](../../../../img/application-access/azure/select-managed-identities.png)

Click **Select**, then **Review + assign**.

Verify that your **Role** is "Reader", the **Scope** matches your chosen
resource group, and the **Members** field includes the `teleport-azure` managed
identity you created earlier.

Click **Review + assign** again.

### Attach an identity to your Azure VM

Now that you have created a managed identity and assigned it a role, attach the
identity to your Azure VM so the Teleport Application Service can assume the
identity in order to proxy Azure CLI traffic.

In the [Virtual machines
view](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.Compute%2FVirtualMachines)
of Azure Portal, click on the name of the VM you are using to host the Teleport
Application Service. 

On the right side panel, click the **Identity** tab, then within the
**Identity** view, click the **User assigned** tab. Click **+Add**, then select
the `teleport-azure` identity. Click **Add**.

![Add an identity to a
VM](../../../../img/application-access/azure/vm-identity.png)

Navigate back to **Identity** tab in the page for your Azure VM. You should see
the new identity listed in the **User assigned** sub-tab:

![Verifying that you added the
identity](../../../../img/application-access/azure/verify-id.png)

## Step 2/4. Deploy the Teleport Application Service

In this step, you will run the Teleport Application Service on the Azure VM you
assigned the `teleport-azure` identity to. 

(!docs/pages/includes/application-access/app-service-join-token.mdx!)

### Install the Teleport Application Service

Run the following commands on the host where you will install the Teleport
Application Service:

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

### Configure the Teleport Application Service

On the host where you will run the Teleport Application Service, create a file
at `/etc/teleport.yaml` with the following content:

```yaml
version: v3
teleport:
  join_params:
    token_name: "/tmp/token"
    method: token
  proxy_server: "teleport.example.com:443"
auth_service:
  enabled: false
proxy_service:
  enabled: false
ssh_service:
  enabled: false
app_service:
  enabled: true
  apps:
  - name: azure-cli
    cloud: Azure
```

Edit `/etc/teleport.yaml` to replace `teleport.example.com:443` with the host
and port of your Teleport Proxy Service or Teleport Cloud tenant, e.g.,
`mytenant.teleport.sh:443`.

The `app_service` field configures the Teleport Application Service. Each item
within `app_service.apps` is an application configuration. 

In this example, we have enabled Azure CLI access by setting `cloud` to `Azure`.
With this setting configured, the Application Service will proxy user commands
from Azure CLIs by requesting access to Azure's APIs under the user's chosen
identity, which works as long as the identity is one of the ones attached to the
Application Service host.

### Run the Teleport Application Service

(!docs/pages/includes/start-teleport.mdx service="the Teleport Application Service"!)

## Step 3/4. Enable your user to access Azure CLIs

(!docs/pages/includes/application-access/azure-teleport-role.mdx!)

## Step 4/4. Use Azure CLIs with Teleport

(!docs/pages/includes/application-access/azure-tsh.mdx!)

## Next steps

- Now that you know how to protect Azure CLI access using Teleport, ensure that
  your Teleport users can only manage Azure resources temporarily, with no
  longstanding admin roles for attackers to hijack. View our documentation on
  [Role Access
  Requests](../../../identity-governance/access-requests/role-requests.mdx) and
  [Access Request plugins](../../../identity-governance/access-request-plugins/access-request-plugins.mdx).
- Consult the Azure documentation for information about [Azure managed
  identities](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview)
  and how to [manage user-assigned managed
  identities](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-manage-user-assigned-managed-identities).
- See the [Azure
  documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/reference-index?view=azure-cli-latest)
  for the full list of `az` CLI commands.
- For full details on how Teleport populates the `internal` and `external`
  traits we illustrated in the Teleport roles within this guide, see
  the [Access Controls
  Reference](../../../reference/access-controls/roles.mdx).
