docs/pages/admin-guides/deploy-a-cluster/helm-deployments/disaster-recovery.mdx, before:

---
title: Managing Disaster Recovery in an Amazon EKS Teleport Cluster
description: Provides guidance for planning a strategy for restoring a self-hosted Teleport cluster on EKS after a regional outage.
---

In case of an outage in your cloud provider region, you need to ensure that you
can restore your Teleport cluster to working order. This guide provides an
overview of a disaster recovery approach for self-hosted Teleport clusters.

The guide assumes that your self-hosted Teleport cluster runs on Amazon Elastic
Kubernetes Service and uses the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart. The
`teleport-cluster` Helm chart is the recommended approach for quickly getting
started with self-hosting a Teleport cluster on Kubernetes, and you can read
about how to get started with the chart in [Deploy Teleport on
Kubernetes](./kubernetes-cluster.mdx).

## How it works

In the approach we explain in this guide, AWS backs up the Teleport Auth Service
backends to a secondary region. If the primary region becomes unavailable due to
an outage, an admin redeploys the cluster to the secondary region, configuring
the Teleport Auth Service to connect to new backends in the region. 

Since Teleport certificate authorities are already backed up in the new region,
running Teleport Agents and bots outside the unavailable region do not need to
reconnect to the cluster. In this disaster recovery scenario, the recovery time
objective depends on the time it takes to redeploy the Auth Service and Proxy
Service in the new region, as well as the time to live (TTL) of the DNS records
for the Teleport Proxy Service.

## Prerequisites

- Your self-hosted Teleport cluster was launched using the `teleport-cluster`
  Helm chart. We recommend reading [Deploying a High Availability Teleport
  Cluster](../high-availability.mdx) for a high-level architectural outline of a
  self-hosted Teleport cluster.
- You are using Amazon DynamoDB for the cluster state backend and audit event
  backend, and using Amazon S3 for your session recording backend. For
  information on selecting Teleport backends, see [Storage
  Backends](../../../reference/backends.mdx).

<Admonition type="danger">

This guide is not intended to be a runbook for a regional outage.

Read this guide to help prepare your disaster recovery plan, including any
runbooks and automation. We strongly recommend that you regularly test your plan
to prevent issues.

</Admonition>

## Step 1/4. Back up Auth Service backends

The first step in setting up a disaster recovery procedure for your Teleport
cluster on Amazon EKS is to back up your Teleport Auth Service backends to a
secondary region. If the primary region becomes unavailable, the backend
replicas in the secondary region will be ready for your new cluster to connect
to once you redeploy it in the secondary region.

The recovery point objective for a Teleport cluster during a regional outage
depends on how frequently you back up the Auth Service backend. The more
frequent the backups, the fewer backend changes you will lose when you restore
the cluster during a disaster.

### Cluster state backend

With a backup of the cluster state backend, the Teleport Auth Service can use
its existing certificate authorities to sign certificates for cluster
components. If you restore a Teleport cluster with a new backend, and do not
have a backup, you will need to configure cluster components, such as
self-hosted databases protected by Teleport, to trust the new CAs.

Read the [Amazon DynamoDB
documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Backup-and-Restore.html)
to plan your backup procedure.

<details>
<summary>AWS Key Management Service users</summary>

If the Teleport Auth Service in your cluster uses Amazon Key Management Service
for certificate authority private keys, you must replicate your keys to the new
AWS region before reinstalling the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart. See the [AWS
documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/multi-region-keys-overview.html")
for information about using KMS keys in multiple regions. 

Note that KMS support is only possible in the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart
using the `auth.teleportConfig` values field ([chart
reference](../../../reference/helm-reference/teleport-cluster.mdx#authteleportconfig),
and is not recommended for most `teleport-cluster` users.

</details>

### Audit event backend

In addition to the cluster state backend, you must also back up the audit event
backend to a secondary region in order to retain access to audit events. As with
the cluster state backend read the [Amazon DynamoDB
documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Backup-and-Restore.html)
to plan your backup procedure.

### Session recording backend

To retain access to your session recordings in the case of region-wide
unavailability, you need to back up your session recordings to the secondary
region. When you redeploy the Teleport Auth Service to the new region, you can
configure it to connect to an S3 bucket in the new region.

You can use S3 replication rules to create continuous backups from your primary
region to the backup region. Follow the [Multi-Region
Blueprint](../multi-region-blueprint.mdx#setting-up-multi-region-aws-s3-replication)
guide to plan multi-region S3 bucket replication for your session recording
backend.

## Step 2/4. Stop the existing cluster

When you detect a zonal or regional outage, it is important that you cleanly
stop the existing Teleport cluster. While outages at the cloud provider level
disrupt the expected functioning of a Teleport cluster, some operations in your
cluster may continue successfully. After the outage has concluded, services that
remained functional or come back online can cause the cluster to behave in
unexpected ways.

1. If it is possible to do so, stop any Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service
   pods in your cluster. This command assumes that the name of your release is
   `teleport-cluster` and that it runs in the `teleport` namespace:

   ```code
   $ helm --namespace teleport uninstall teleport-cluster
   ```

   Note that, in the case of a full regional outage, your existing cluster may
   already be unavailable.

1. Teleport Agents can remain connected to a Teleport cluster even after an
   outage has caused it to become unavailable. For any Agents running outside
   the region affected by the disaster, plan to restart them once you have
   changed the DNS record for your Teleport cluster to terminate any lingering
   connections. If you have deployed agents in the affected region, you will
   need to redeploy them to the new region after relaunching the Auth Service
   and Proxy Service.
 
## Step 3/4. Relaunch the Auth Service and Proxy Service

Now that there is a backup of the Auth Service backend, you are safe to deploy
the Teleport cluster in a new region.  

### Update your values file

When deploying the Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service to the new region,
you need to update the following fields in the values file for the
`teleport-cluster` Helm chart:

- `aws.region`
- `aws.backendTable`
- `aws.auditLogTable`
- `aws.sessionRecordingBucket`

You may need to update other values to match third-party dependencies of the
Teleport cluster. For example, if you plan to deploy `cert-manager` to handle
Teleport Proxy Service certificates instead of Let's Encrypt, you need to set
the `certManager.issuerName` field to match the name of the `cert-manager`
Issuer in your Kubernetes cluster. 

We recommend reading [Running an HA Teleport Cluster Using AWS, EKS, and
Helm](./aws.mdx) so you can make sure that you have accounted for any
third-party dependencies you need to manage in the new AWS region.

### Update IAM configurations

You also need to ensure that the roles used by the Auth Service and Proxy
Service grant the services permissions to access backends in the new region.
Make sure that the trust policies associated with these roles grant access to
principals in the new region.

### Provision credentials to the load balancer  

The `teleport-cluster` Helm chart deploys a Kubernetes service that, by default,
has the `LoadBalancer` type. Reinstalling the Helm chart in your new AWS region
recreates the load balancer. 

If you are using AWS Certificate Manager or `cert-manager` to provision TLS
credentials for your load balancer, you must create a new certificate and
private key before installing the chart in the new region.

For guidance on configuring your EKS cluster to use ACM and `cert-manager` with
the Teleport Proxy Service load balancer, see [Configure TLS certificates for
Teleport](./aws.mdx#step-47-configure-tls-certificates-for-teleport).

### Reinstall the Helm chart

1. Install the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart using the new values:

   ```code
   $ helm install teleport-cluster teleport/teleport-cluster \
     --version (=teleport.version=) \
     --values teleport-cluster-values.yaml
   ```

1. After installing the `teleport-cluster` chart, wait a minute or so and ensure
   that both the Auth Service and Proxy Service pods are running:

   ```code
   $ kubectl get pods
   NAME                                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   teleport-cluster-auth-000000000-00000     1/1     Running   0          114s
   teleport-cluster-proxy-0000000000-00000   1/1     Running   0          114s
   ```

1. Once the Teleport Auth Service is running on the new cluster, make sure that
   you have applied Teleport dynamic resources against the new cluster so the
   Teleport Kubernetes operator can manage them. 

   You should manage your Teleport resources as a set of Kubernetes manifests
   applied using a GitOps tool like Flux CD so that, when you launch the new
   cluster, you can readily apply them.

<Admonition type="warning">

Note that, by the time you have redeployed the Auth Service and Proxy Service,
any Machine & Workload Identity bots that have joined the cluster with a static
token will likely miss their renewal periods and become locked out of the
cluster until the Teleport Auth Service can issue new tokens. We recommend using
delegated join methods to prevent this scenario. 

</Admonition>

## Step 4/4. Update DNS records

Once you have launched your Teleport cluster in the new AWS region, you must
ensure that Route 53 DNS records point to the new cluster.

Ensure that existing DNS records for the Teleport Proxy Service in your cluster
have a low TTL, e.g., one minute. We expect that DNS resolvers in your users'
networks honor the TTLs of DNS records to prevent issues with propagating
records.

(!docs/pages/includes/self-hosted-helm-dns.mdx!)

## Guidance  

Assuming that you have planned your disaster recovery strategy around the steps
we lay out in this guide, we recommend the following practices.
  
### Testing your disaster recovery procedure

We strongly recommended testing your disaster recovery plan. Schedule time to
stop your Teleport cluster in one region and redeploy in another one using your
backup of the Auth Service cluster state backend. After redeploying your
cluster, ensure that users can continue to connect to Teleport-protected
resources.

Common causes of disaster recovery failures include:
- **Misconfigured IAM settings:** The Teleport Auth Service in your first region
  can access its backend, for example, but in the second region, the Auth
  Service has a role with insufficient permissions.
- **Misconfigured backend connections:** The Teleport Auth Service is configured
  with an incorrect cluster state backend URL in the new region, meaning that
  when it starts up, it fails to retrieve its existing CAs and bootstraps
  instead with a self-signed certificate.

### Shortening the recovery time objective

When planning a Teleport disaster recovery plan, the main consideration for
estimating a recovery time objective is how long it will take for the Teleport
Auth Service to come online in your secondary region.

You can expect the disaster recovery procedure outlined in this guide to take at
least an hour, though the precise details depend on your infrastructure and
organization. To arrive at an exact benchmark, we strongly recommend [testing
your disaster recovery procedure](#testing-your-disaster-recovery-procedure).

You can take measures to shorten the recovery time objective of your disaster
recovery procedure. Possibilities include:

- Reduce the TTL of the DNS records for the Teleport Proxy Service. If this is
  longer than the time it takes to redeploy your cluster to a new region,
  clients may continue to connect to the cluster in the previous region.
- Restore your cluster state and audit event backend tables from backup prior to
  reinstalling the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart, so the Teleport Auth Service
  does not need to initialize any tables itself.
- Run the Auth Service, Proxy Service, and backend services in the secondary
  region before any regional outage takes place. When there are redundant
  Teleport cluster deployments across multiple regions, there is no need to lose
  availability while waiting for your cluster to deploy to a new region. Read
  about the architecture of a multi-region Teleport deployment in the
  [Multi-Region Blueprint](../multi-region-blueprint.mdx) guide.

### Imposing a change freeze

During a regional cloud provider outage, the procedure we outline in this guide
includes stopping the Teleport cluster in the affected region. Until the cluster
comes back online, it is impossible for users to update dynamic resources or
rotate the cluster CAs. In some cases, though, you may need to impose a change
freeze to prevent users from updating cluster resources while you restore a
cluster from a backup.

You can impose a change freeze by locking Teleport roles that include
permissions to edit dynamic resources. Teleport roles allow access to modifying
dynamic resources with the `spec.allow.rules` field. 

You can use the following `jq` command to list all roles with one or more rule
that grants permissions to modify backend resources. This example assumes that
there is a role called `locksmith` that allows the user to create, list, read,
and delete locks. It skips the `locksmith` user so you can remove the lock after
restoring the cluster:

```code
$ tctl get roles --format json | jq -r '.[] | select(.metadata.name != "locksmith" and .spec.allow.rules) | .metadata.name'
dashboard-admin
dashboard-user
device-admin
device-enroll
group-access
```

Teleport grants access to certificate authority rotations using the
`spec.allow.rules` field - on the `cert_authority` resource - so using role
locking to impose a change freeze will also unintended certificate authority
rotations during the disaster recovery procedure.

Create a lock using a `tctl lock` command. The following example locks the
`contractor` role for 24 hours:

```code
$ tctl lock --role=contractor --message="change freeze during disaster recovery" --ttl=24h
```

Note that users with permissions to execute commands directly on the Auth
Service pod can still make changes to the backend using `tctl`.

Once it is safe for users to modify cluster resources, use the `tctl rm
lock/<lock_id>` command to remove each lock. If you provided each lock with a
similar `--message` flag value when creating the locks, you can remove all locks
you created with a single command. This command removes all locks with a message
that includes the substring `change freeze`:

```code
$ tctl get lock --format=json \
  | jq -r '.[] | select(.spec.message and (.spec.message | contains("change freeze"))) | .metadata.name' \
  | xargs -I{} tctl rm lock/{}
```

## Further reading

- Read the [Backup and Restore](../../management/operations/backup-restore.mdx)
  guide for general information on backing up your Teleport cluster backends.
- For more information on preventing Teleport roles from making changes to your
  cluster state backend, read [Session and Identity
  Locking](../../access-controls/guides/locking.mdx).

Commit message:

Respond to hugoShaka feedback
Describe restarting the Proxy Service in relation to gRPC connections as
a way to prevent agents from remaining connected to affected Proxy
Service instances.

docs/pages/admin-guides/deploy-a-cluster/helm-deployments/disaster-recovery.mdx, after:

---
title: Managing Disaster Recovery in an Amazon EKS Teleport Cluster
description: Provides guidance for planning a strategy for restoring a self-hosted Teleport cluster on EKS after a regional outage.
---

In case of an outage in your cloud provider region, you need to ensure that you
can restore your Teleport cluster to working order. This guide provides an
overview of a disaster recovery approach for self-hosted Teleport clusters.

The guide assumes that your self-hosted Teleport cluster runs on Amazon Elastic
Kubernetes Service and uses the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart. The
`teleport-cluster` Helm chart is the recommended approach for quickly getting
started with self-hosting a Teleport cluster on Kubernetes, and you can read
about how to get started with the chart in [Deploy Teleport on
Kubernetes](./kubernetes-cluster.mdx).

## How it works

In the approach we explain in this guide, AWS backs up the Teleport Auth Service
backends to a secondary region. If the primary region becomes unavailable due to
an outage, an admin redeploys the cluster to the secondary region, configuring
the Teleport Auth Service to connect to new backends in the region. 

Since Teleport certificate authorities are already backed up in the new region,
running Teleport Agents and bots outside the unavailable region do not need to
reconnect to the cluster. In this disaster recovery scenario, the recovery time
objective depends on the time it takes to redeploy the Auth Service and Proxy
Service in the new region, as well as the time to live (TTL) of the DNS records
for the Teleport Proxy Service.

## Prerequisites

- Your self-hosted Teleport cluster was launched using the `teleport-cluster`
  Helm chart. We recommend reading [Deploying a High Availability Teleport
  Cluster](../high-availability.mdx) for a high-level architectural outline of a
  self-hosted Teleport cluster.
- You are using Amazon DynamoDB for the cluster state backend and audit event
  backend, and using Amazon S3 for your session recording backend. For
  information on selecting Teleport backends, see [Storage
  Backends](../../../reference/backends.mdx).

<Admonition type="danger">

This guide is not intended to be a runbook for a regional outage.

Read this guide to help prepare your disaster recovery plan, including any
runbooks and automation. We strongly recommend that you regularly test your plan
to prevent issues.

</Admonition>

## Step 1/4. Back up Auth Service backends

The first step in setting up a disaster recovery procedure for your Teleport
cluster on Amazon EKS is to back up your Teleport Auth Service backends to a
secondary region. If the primary region becomes unavailable, the backend
replicas in the secondary region will be ready for your new cluster to connect
to once you redeploy it in the secondary region.

The recovery point objective for a Teleport cluster during a regional outage
depends on how frequently you back up the Auth Service backend. The more
frequent the backups, the fewer backend changes you will lose when you restore
the cluster during a disaster.

### Cluster state backend

With a backup of the cluster state backend, the Teleport Auth Service can use
its existing certificate authorities to sign certificates for cluster
components. If you restore a Teleport cluster with a new backend, and do not
have a backup, you will need to configure cluster components, such as
self-hosted databases protected by Teleport, to trust the new CAs.

Read the [Amazon DynamoDB
documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Backup-and-Restore.html)
to plan your backup procedure.

<details>
<summary>AWS Key Management Service users</summary>

If the Teleport Auth Service in your cluster uses Amazon Key Management Service
for certificate authority private keys, you must replicate your keys to the new
AWS region before reinstalling the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart. See the [AWS
documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/multi-region-keys-overview.html")
for information about using KMS keys in multiple regions. 

Note that KMS support is only possible in the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart
using the `auth.teleportConfig` values field ([chart
reference](../../../reference/helm-reference/teleport-cluster.mdx#authteleportconfig),
and is not recommended for most `teleport-cluster` users.

</details>

### Audit event backend

In addition to the cluster state backend, you must also back up the audit event
backend to a secondary region in order to retain access to audit events. As with
the cluster state backend read the [Amazon DynamoDB
documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/Backup-and-Restore.html)
to plan your backup procedure.

### Session recording backend

To retain access to your session recordings in the case of region-wide
unavailability, you need to back up your session recordings to the secondary
region. When you redeploy the Teleport Auth Service to the new region, you can
configure it to connect to an S3 bucket in the new region.

You can use S3 replication rules to create continuous backups from your primary
region to the backup region. Follow the [Multi-Region
Blueprint](../multi-region-blueprint.mdx#setting-up-multi-region-aws-s3-replication)
guide to plan multi-region S3 bucket replication for your session recording
backend.

## Step 2/4. Stop the existing cluster

When you detect a zonal or regional outage, it is important that you cleanly
stop the existing Teleport cluster. While outages at the cloud provider level
disrupt the expected functioning of a Teleport cluster, some operations in your
cluster may continue successfully. After the outage has concluded, services that
remained functional or come back online can cause the cluster to behave in
unexpected ways.

For example, Teleport Agents can remain connected to a Teleport cluster even
after an outage has caused it to become unavailable. This is because agents
establish long-lived gRPC connections through the Proxy Service, and maintain
these even when the target Proxy Service instances have become unresponsive. You
can force-close the connections between agents and the Proxy Service by stopping
and restarting the Proxy Service.

If it is possible to do so, stop any Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service
pods in your cluster. This command assumes that the name of your release is
`teleport-cluster` and that it runs in the `teleport` namespace:

```code
$ helm --namespace teleport uninstall teleport-cluster
```

Note that, in the case of a full regional outage, your existing cluster may
already be unavailable.

## Step 3/4. Relaunch the Auth Service and Proxy Service

Now that there is a backup of the Auth Service backend, you are safe to deploy
the Teleport cluster in a new region.  

### Update your values file

When deploying the Teleport Auth Service and Proxy Service to the new region,
you need to update the following fields in the values file for the
`teleport-cluster` Helm chart:

- `aws.region`
- `aws.backendTable`
- `aws.auditLogTable`
- `aws.sessionRecordingBucket`

You may need to update other values to match third-party dependencies of the
Teleport cluster. For example, if you plan to deploy `cert-manager` to handle
Teleport Proxy Service certificates instead of Let's Encrypt, you need to set
the `certManager.issuerName` field to match the name of the `cert-manager`
Issuer in your Kubernetes cluster. 

We recommend reading [Running an HA Teleport Cluster Using AWS, EKS, and
Helm](./aws.mdx) so you can make sure that you have accounted for any
third-party dependencies you need to manage in the new AWS region.

### Update IAM configurations

You also need to ensure that the roles used by the Auth Service and Proxy
Service grant the services permissions to access backends in the new region.
Make sure that the trust policies associated with these roles grant access to
principals in the new region.

### Provision credentials to the load balancer  

The `teleport-cluster` Helm chart deploys a Kubernetes service that, by default,
has the `LoadBalancer` type. Reinstalling the Helm chart in your new AWS region
recreates the load balancer. 

If you are using AWS Certificate Manager or `cert-manager` to provision TLS
credentials for your load balancer, you must create a new certificate and
private key before installing the chart in the new region.

For guidance on configuring your EKS cluster to use ACM and `cert-manager` with
the Teleport Proxy Service load balancer, see [Configure TLS certificates for
Teleport](./aws.mdx#step-47-configure-tls-certificates-for-teleport).

### Reinstall the Helm chart

1. Install the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart using the new values:

   ```code
   $ helm install teleport-cluster teleport/teleport-cluster \
     --version (=teleport.version=) \
     --values teleport-cluster-values.yaml
   ```

1. After installing the `teleport-cluster` chart, wait a minute or so and ensure
   that both the Auth Service and Proxy Service pods are running:

   ```code
   $ kubectl get pods
   NAME                                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   teleport-cluster-auth-000000000-00000     1/1     Running   0          114s
   teleport-cluster-proxy-0000000000-00000   1/1     Running   0          114s
   ```

1. Once the Teleport Auth Service is running on the new cluster, make sure that
   you have applied Teleport dynamic resources against the new cluster so the
   Teleport Kubernetes operator can manage them. 

   You should manage your Teleport resources as a set of Kubernetes manifests
   applied using a GitOps tool like Flux CD so that, when you launch the new
   cluster, you can readily apply them.

<Admonition type="warning">

Note that, by the time you have redeployed the Auth Service and Proxy Service,
any Machine & Workload Identity bots that have joined the cluster with a static
token will likely miss their renewal periods and become locked out of the
cluster until the Teleport Auth Service can issue new tokens. We recommend using
delegated join methods to prevent this scenario. 

</Admonition>

## Step 4/4. Update DNS records

Once you have launched your Teleport cluster in the new AWS region, you must
ensure that Route 53 DNS records point to the new cluster.

Ensure that existing DNS records for the Teleport Proxy Service in your cluster
have a low TTL, e.g., one minute. We expect that DNS resolvers in your users'
networks honor the TTLs of DNS records to prevent issues with propagating
records.

(!docs/pages/includes/self-hosted-helm-dns.mdx!)

## Guidance  

Assuming that you have planned your disaster recovery strategy around the steps
we lay out in this guide, we recommend the following practices.
  
### Testing your disaster recovery procedure

We strongly recommended testing your disaster recovery plan. Schedule time to
stop your Teleport cluster in one region and redeploy in another one using your
backup of the Auth Service cluster state backend. After redeploying your
cluster, ensure that users can continue to connect to Teleport-protected
resources.

Common causes of disaster recovery failures include:
- **Misconfigured IAM settings:** The Teleport Auth Service in your first region
  can access its backend, for example, but in the second region, the Auth
  Service has a role with insufficient permissions.
- **Misconfigured backend connections:** The Teleport Auth Service is configured
  with an incorrect cluster state backend URL in the new region, meaning that
  when it starts up, it fails to retrieve its existing CAs and bootstraps
  instead with a self-signed certificate.

### Shortening the recovery time objective

When planning a Teleport disaster recovery plan, the main consideration for
estimating a recovery time objective is how long it will take for the Teleport
Auth Service to come online in your secondary region.

You can expect the disaster recovery procedure outlined in this guide to take at
least an hour, though the precise details depend on your infrastructure and
organization. To arrive at an exact benchmark, we strongly recommend [testing
your disaster recovery procedure](#testing-your-disaster-recovery-procedure).

You can take measures to shorten the recovery time objective of your disaster
recovery procedure. Possibilities include:

- Reduce the TTL of the DNS records for the Teleport Proxy Service. If this is
  longer than the time it takes to redeploy your cluster to a new region,
  clients may continue to connect to the cluster in the previous region.
- Restore your cluster state and audit event backend tables from backup prior to
  reinstalling the `teleport-cluster` Helm chart, so the Teleport Auth Service
  does not need to initialize any tables itself.
- Run the Auth Service, Proxy Service, and backend services in the secondary
  region before any regional outage takes place. When there are redundant
  Teleport cluster deployments across multiple regions, there is no need to lose
  availability while waiting for your cluster to deploy to a new region. Read
  about the architecture of a multi-region Teleport deployment in the
  [Multi-Region Blueprint](../multi-region-blueprint.mdx) guide.

### Imposing a change freeze

During a regional cloud provider outage, the procedure we outline in this guide
includes stopping the Teleport cluster in the affected region. Until the cluster
comes back online, it is impossible for users to update dynamic resources or
rotate the cluster CAs. In some cases, though, you may need to impose a change
freeze to prevent users from updating cluster resources while you restore a
cluster from a backup.

You can impose a change freeze by locking Teleport roles that include
permissions to edit dynamic resources. Teleport roles allow access to modifying
dynamic resources with the `spec.allow.rules` field. 

You can use the following `jq` command to list all roles with one or more rule
that grants permissions to modify backend resources. This example assumes that
there is a role called `locksmith` that allows the user to create, list, read,
and delete locks. It skips the `locksmith` user so you can remove the lock after
restoring the cluster:

```code
$ tctl get roles --format json | jq -r '.[] | select(.metadata.name != "locksmith" and .spec.allow.rules) | .metadata.name'
dashboard-admin
dashboard-user
device-admin
device-enroll
group-access
```

Teleport grants access to certificate authority rotations using the
`spec.allow.rules` field - on the `cert_authority` resource - so using role
locking to impose a change freeze will also unintended certificate authority
rotations during the disaster recovery procedure.

Create a lock using a `tctl lock` command. The following example locks the
`contractor` role for 24 hours:

```code
$ tctl lock --role=contractor --message="change freeze during disaster recovery" --ttl=24h
```

Note that users with permissions to execute commands directly on the Auth
Service pod can still make changes to the backend using `tctl`.

Once it is safe for users to modify cluster resources, use the `tctl rm
lock/<lock_id>` command to remove each lock. If you provided each lock with a
similar `--message` flag value when creating the locks, you can remove all locks
you created with a single command. This command removes all locks with a message
that includes the substring `change freeze`:

```code
$ tctl get lock --format=json \
  | jq -r '.[] | select(.spec.message and (.spec.message | contains("change freeze"))) | .metadata.name' \
  | xargs -I{} tctl rm lock/{}
```

## Further reading

- Read the [Backup and Restore](../../management/operations/backup-restore.mdx)
  guide for general information on backing up your Teleport cluster backends.
- For more information on preventing Teleport roles from making changes to your
  cluster state backend, read [Session and Identity
  Locking](../../access-controls/guides/locking.mdx).
